# Devin Widmer's ePortfolio

## About Me
  Hello, My name is Devin Widmer and I am pursuing my dream career as a software engineer. I am currently working as a software engineer intern at a local company in San Diego while I complete my final term for my degree program. I am pursuing a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science with a concentration in Software Engineering from Southern New Hampshire University. Completing my coursework throughout the Computer Science program at SNHU has really helped me to shape my professional goals and prepared me to become more employable in field. When I fisrt started my degree program I knew the basics of HTML, CSS, and Java programming languages, but not much else. The courses at SNHU have exposed me to Python, C++, C, binary, SQL, and Javascript. By learning about and gaining experience in different programming languages, I was able to better focus on what I liked and what I would like to pursue as a career after graduation. In addition to programming, I also gained experience in collaborating in a team environment and communicating to stakeholders.  In previous terms I completed courses that focused on source control and versioning practices in a team environment, secure coding practices, working in an agile development environment, and the Software Development Life Cycle.

  In order to demonstrate my knowledge of software design and engineering, data structures and algorithms, and databases I created a brand new React app project from scratch. This project was created to serve as part of my final project for my computer science capstone course to demonstrate the knowlege I gained from the Computer Science program. The app I created is a fullstack application that I made using the MERN stack. The MERN stack utilizes MongoDB and Express on the backend and Node JS and React on the frontend. I created this app to serve as a sign up page for a coffee loyalty program I made up called Coffee Perks. To sign up, users enter their name, email, username and password using the user interface and the information is sent to and stored in the MongoDB database. Rather than submitting one artifact for each of the three categories of enhancement (software design and engineering, data structures and algorithms, and databases), I decided to start from scratch and build a custom app that would encompass all the requirements. 

### Enhancement One: Software Design and Engineering
For the Software Design and Engineering category of enhancement, I wanted to focus on creating a functional and professional user interface. At the time of the code review, the app was nothing more than a sign up form on a blank white page. In order to make the page look more professional I added text, a logo, several images and a CSS style sheet. I decided to include this artifact in my portfolio because it is a great opportunity to show off my front end development skills since I was starting with a blank page. While enhancing this artifact I initially struggled with the styling component of the application. I have some experience doing front end development work in the past but creating a fresh style sheet from scratch is exhausting work. I also learned a great deal about the way the different React components are created and then how to tie them all in together to create one single page. 

### Enhancement Two: Algorithm and Data Structures
For the Algorithm and Data Structures category of enhancement, I wanted to focus on adding logic to the app to showcase my knowledge. I added logic that would validate the user input before adding it to MongoDB databse. The code that I have added to the project validates the email entered to make sure it is the correct format. The code also validates the password entered to make sure it’s strong enough. The password must be at least 8 characters long and contain at least: 1 Lowercase letter, 1 Uppercase letter, 1 number, and 1 symbol. If the user enters an invalid email or password the form will not be submitted to prevent the user from entering incomplete or invalid information. The error will also be printed to the console which will inform the user of the invalid format or requirements for the field. I have also made all of the fields of the sign up form required and if the user skips one of the fields an error is thrown. While wokring on this artifact I had a hard time finding a way to validate the user’s input and it took me a lot longer than I thought it would to get it functioning correctly. I also learned a great deal about error handling and all the different ways it can be accomplished.

### Enhancement Three: Databases
I am showcased my skills and abilities in databases by implementing code that will check if the email entered by a user when registering for the loyalty program is already present in the database. For this milestone I also implemented code that increases security by automatically encrypting the password entered by the user when they are registering. The password is automatically encrypted and then sent to the database and stored in encrypted form. This enhancement was important because storing user login credentials as a plain text string is extremely unsafe. I included this artifact in my ePortfolio because I really wanted to showcase my skills in interacting with a database as part of a full stack application and I have achieved that with these enhancements. While enhancing this artifact I learned that because of the flexibility of MongoDB, there were a lot of different ways to complete these enhancements. It definitely took a lot of research in order to find the implementation the met my exact needs, but I was ultimately successful in implementing the enhancements that I planned for this artifact.
